---
layout: post
title:  "Survive the stress"
date:   2021-02-07 21:36:37 -0600
categories: blog post
---
Does any of this sound familiar?

You missed a holiday, family event, or scheduled time off due to staffing issues or major incidents at work. You overthink and replay an incident you just responded to because you feel you might have missed something important. You feel burned out from responding to the same false alarms or mundane incidents. While on the clock, you are alert, energetic and vigilant. Off the clock, you feel exhausted, detached, apathetic and just want to "veg" out.

These are just a few manifestations of holding a highly demanding, stressful job and as a former police officer, I am familiar with the toll they can take on a person's mental health and well-being. Oftentimes, those of us with stressful jobs forget to take care of ourselves in the midst of our day to day responsibilities. Managing work-related stress can be difficult, but through experience in these types of stressful occupations I have learned how to cope.

My lessons learned were to take charge and control what you can control. You won't always be able to anticipate when you will miss plans because of work. Instead of waiting for life to calm or slow down, make plans and stick to them.

Decompress by engaging in other hobbies and interests. For example, activities like hiking, rock climbing, or kayaking are especially beneficial because they involve physical exercise, which is a great stress reducer. According to a research team based at Princeton University, “Physical activity reorganizes the brain so that its response to stress is reduced and anxiety is less likely to interfere with normal brain function.”

Implementing these strategies can help you improve your work-life balance and hopefully bring you some stress relief.

I hope this post was helpful and thank you for reading.






